# AarogyaVarta - Online Group Medical Consultation System

# Problem Statement:
Develop a Web-based software to facilitate Online Group Medical Consultations by connecting multiple Patients having Covid Symptoms with a single Doctor at a time, such that The Medical Fraternity can widen its scope for reaching and treating numerous patients in the minimum possible time irrespective of the physical distance between them in the lethal Covid 19 Pandemic. Patients need to be smartly grouped through the software on the basis of various parameters such that the same consultation is applicable to a set of people. The platform should aid patients to receive the most suitable medical guidance and treatment by channelizing them to appropriate treatment programmes according to their health condition. This project should effectively bridge the communication gap between doctors and patients due to the rising pandemic.

# Solution Found:
We are developing a common web application ‘AarogyaVarta’ for two roles namely, Doctor and Patient which will be distinguished on the basis of their login.

# Doctor-side Description:
- Doctors from varied specializations and hospitals can use our portal to provide medical guidance and treatment to multiple patients at the same time.
- A doctor first needs to register himself/herself on our platform by providing crucial details for his/her profile like Personal Details, Educational Background, Professional Background, Contact Details and Verification Details. Some parts of these details will be shared with patients when they wish to enrol in a session conducted by the doctor.
- After successful Login, the dashboard of the doctor will be categorized into 3 sections namely, Upcoming Meetings (Active Section), Previous Meetings and My Insights.
- A ‘Create New Session’ button will be displayed in the active section through which the doctor can create multiple sessions dealing with different groups of patients. Once the button is clicked, a form containing the following fields will open:
1. Topic: The topic on which the doctor aims to create a session for.
2. Description: A brief description of content, intended audience and parameters which will be covered in the session by the doctor.
3. Pre-recorded YouTube Session Link: The doctor would have to pre-record and upload a YouTube video for the session in advance before creating a new session and directly share the link in this form. We selected YouTube as the platform for the main awareness session to save the doctor’s time for delivering the same medical advice several times and solving the concern of the maximum limit of participants allowed in an online video conference. To solve the doubts of patients arising from the session, we have further planned a separate approach.
4. Upload Prescription: The doctor can upload a prescription for recommended medicines and medical tests which can be beneficial to the registered session attendees. The prescription will not be directly available to all the attendees and the doctor would have the full rights to control whom to share it with.
5. Age Group: The doctor would have to select the appropriate range of age groups for whom the session is intended.
6. Comorbidities: The doctor would have to select all the types of comorbidities according to the session’s content such that only patients having the selected comorbidities are suggested and eligible for this treatment.
7. Symptoms: The doctor would have to select all the symptoms which the patients might experience in accordance with the treatment recommended in the session video.
   Note: On the basis of the above 3 parameters i.e., Age Group, Comorbidities and Symptoms, our software would enable the smart grouping of patients and recommend them only those sessions by doctors where they satisfy the above categories.
- Upcoming Meetings Section – In this section, all the previously created sessions by a doctor along with their details will be shown in separate cards. In each session card, there will be a separate section which will contain the list of details of all The Upcoming Follow-Up Meet Links which have been scheduled by the doctor according to his/her schedule for solving the doubts/concerns which the patients might have after watching the YouTube Session uploaded by the doctor previously. In every meet the doctor can address the queries of up to 100 participants. For a single session, multiple meets can be scheduled. Thus, by using two separate platforms, YouTube (for content delivery) and Google Meet (for consultation/doubt solving) we are effectively saving the doctor’s time to treat numerous patients and also saving the patient’s time by providing him/her instant access to medical guidance followed by answering of their queries shortly after that and aid in early detection of possible health complications.
- Previous Meetings Sections – In this section, the doctor can efficiently track those patients who have attended their follow-up meetings for their specific sessions on a particular day.
- My Insights – In this section, the doctor can view various statistics to analyse the medical background of patients attending his/her meet.
 # Patient-side Description:
- Patients who are experiencing Covid-like symptoms, have been tested Positive for Covid or need to manage their Post-Covid symptoms from all age groups having underlying health conditions/comorbidities can register themselves on our platform.  
- The patient first needs to register himself/herself on our platform by providing crucial details for his/her profile like Personal Details, Medical History, Contact Details, Emergency Contact Details and Verification Details. Most of these details will be accessible to those doctors whose sessions and follow-up meetings have been attended by the patient.
- After successful Login, the dashboard of the patient will be categorized into 4 main sections namely, Enrol in New Session (Active Section), My Sessions, Chat Bot, Recommended Articles and Helpline Details.
- Enrol in New Session – In this section, the patient will be able to search for sessions which have been conducted by several doctors whose details match their age group, comorbidities and symptoms. Before conducting the search, the patient can verify his/her age group and comorbidities and select all the symptoms which he/she is experiencing and then click the find button. After the patient clicks the button, all recommended sessions will be displayed on the same page along with their complete details. Details of the doctor who has conducted the session, YouTube video of the session, upcoming follow-up video conferencing meets which has been scheduled by the doctor to answer the queries arising after watching the session ...etc will be visible to the patient along with an ‘Enrol Now’ button for each Meet link. The patient can enrol in any of the scheduled meets as per his/her convenience. Only those links will be visible to the patient for which the maximum participant capacity has not been filled.
- My Session – Once the patient has enrolled in a session, the details of the session along with the meet link will be visible to him/her in this session. A questionnaire form link will also be present in the session description in which the patient can ask queries arising from the session before his/her follow-up meet has started. These questionnaires will be accessible to the doctor and can be reviewed by him/her such that the doctor can be well-prepared before conducting the follow-up meet.
- Chat Bot – A Machine Learning based smart chat bot will be accessible to the patient where it would have the ability to answer the common queries related to Covid 19 asked by the patient. On the basis of Pin-code entered by the patient, the chat bot will also be able to recommend the best hospitals near him/her.  
- Recommended Articles – In this section, articles from verified sources will be suggested to the patient based on his/her age group, comorbidities and symptoms.
- Helpline Details – In this section, the verified government helpline numbers and resources which provide 24X7 consultation will be listed such that serious patients requiring immediate medical assistance can be guided.

# Technologies, APIs and Libraries Used:
MD Bootstrap, EJS, Express JS, Node JS, jQuery, MongoDB, Evo Calendar, Typeit JS, Sweet Alert, Rasa – AI bot
